Chatbot (Ada)
Overview
Ada is an AI-powered assistant that uses the OpenAI API for natural language processing (NLP) to analyze uploaded data, extract insights, and respond to user queries.

Functional Requirements
Conversational Q&A:
Ada answers user queries based on uploaded data, such as:
“What are the most common pain points?”
“What percentage of requests mention integrations?”
Integration with Product Context:
Ada personalizes responses using the product context provided in the Wizard.
Proactive Suggestions (Future):
Suggest trends and themes without user queries, based on insights from data.

How Ada Uses OpenAI API
NLP Processing:
Ada uses OpenAI’s GPT-4 to:
Parse user queries and extract intent (e.g., “common pain points”).
Analyze uploaded data to identify trends, themes, and recurring pain points.
Generate natural language responses tailored to the query.
Request Workflow:
When a user interacts with Ada, the backend sends a request to OpenAI’s API, including:
The query (e.g., “What are the most requested features?”).
Processed data (e.g., clusters, themes).
Product context from the Wizard.
Response Workflow:
OpenAI processes the request and returns a structured response.
Ada formats this response into user-friendly text.

API Integration
Endpoint for OpenAI Requests
Backend API: /query-ada
Workflow:
Input:
json
Copy code
{
  "query": "What are the top pain points?",
  "product_context": {
    "product_name": "MyProduct",
    "goals": "Help users save time with automation.",
    "personas": ["Small Business Owners"]
  },
  "data": [
    {
      "feature_request": "Add API integrations",
      "customer_type": "Enterprise",
      "priority": "High"
    },
    {
      "feature_request": "Improve onboarding documentation",
      "customer_type": "Small Business",
      "priority": "Medium"
    }
  ]
}


OpenAI API Request:
python
Copy code
import openai

openai.api_key = "your-api-key"

response = openai.ChatCompletion.create(
    model="gpt-4",
    messages=[
        {
            "role": "system",
            "content": (
                "Your name is Ada. You are an intelligent assistant helping Product Managers analyze feature request data. "
                "Your primary role is to identify and articulate pain points derived from the uploaded data, offering clear, actionable insights. "
                "You excel at understanding the themes and trends in unstructured data, clustering related topics, and summarizing them in human-friendly language. "
                "Your responses should be concise yet profound, ensuring clarity while maintaining professionalism. "
                "You always keep the Product Manager's goals and personas in mind, referencing these contexts to tailor your answers. "
                "For example, if a PM is focused on improving 'collaboration for small teams,' ensure your insights align with that goal. "
                "When data is unclear or trends are weak, acknowledge this openly and suggest steps the PM can take to improve their analysis. "
                "You prioritize being supportive, insightful, and solution-oriented."
            ),
        },
        {"role": "user", "content": "What are the top pain points in this data?"},
        {"role": "assistant", "content": "Analyzing the data provided..."}
    ],
    temperature=0.7
)


Output:
json
Copy code
{
  "response": "The top pain points are: 1. Lack of API integrations (30%). 2. Missing documentation (20%)."
}



Key Implementation Notes
OpenAI API Configuration:
Use the openai.ChatCompletion endpoint for GPT-4.
Include a system message to guide the AI’s behavior (e.g., “You are an assistant helping PMs analyze feature request data.”).
Data Preprocessing:
Summarize and clean data before sending it to OpenAI. For example:
Cluster feature requests by themes.
Count occurrences of specific phrases or keywords (e.g., “API integration”).
Rate Limits:
Monitor OpenAI’s API rate limits and batch requests if needed.
Error Handling:
Handle OpenAI API failures gracefully:
If the API is unavailable, return a fallback message:
“I’m currently unable to process this request. Please try again later.”
Cost Management:
Optimize API usage by:
Using smaller data payloads when possible.
Caching results for repeated queries.

Proactive Suggestions (Future)
Leverage OpenAI’s ability to summarize data without explicit queries.
Example: After file upload, Ada could automatically display:
“30% of requests involve API integrations.”
“Recurring theme: Users request better onboarding documentation.”

Development Notes
Frontend:
Ensure Ada’s responses are formatted for clarity and displayed as chat bubbles.
Backend:
Implement modular integration so the OpenAI API logic can be updated (e.g., switching to a new model or adjusting system prompts).
Data Privacy:
Avoid sending sensitive or identifiable user data to OpenAI.
Anonymize inputs where possible.

