Wizard for Product Context
Overview
The Wizard collects foundational information about the user's product and guides them to upload feature request data. This contextual data enables Ada to provide tailored insights.

Functional Requirements
Multi-Step Process:
Collect product name, goals, and user personas.
Guide the user to upload data in the final step.
Real-Time Validation:
Ensure all required fields are filled before moving to the next step.
Seamless Integration with File Upload:
Embed the file upload interface in the Wizard's final step.

UI Specifications
Use a classical, centered layout with:
Large headers for prompts (e.g., “Step 1: Tell us about your product”).
Text boxes, dropdowns, or drag-and-drop components for input.
Progress bar or step indicator at the top:
Example: "Step 2 of 4."

Data Storage
Save user input in a structured JSON format.
Example:
json
Copy code
{
  "product_name": "MyProduct",
  "goals": "Simplify task management for teams.",
  "personas": ["Team Leads", "Remote Workers"]
}



Backend Integration
API Endpoint:
/wizard-context
Methods:
POST: Save Wizard data.
GET: Retrieve previously saved data.

Development Notes
Build each step as a reusable component to allow future updates.
Ensure validation is modular (e.g., field requirements can change without affecting overall flow).

2. File Upload (Part of the Wizard)
Overview
The file upload component allows users to import feature request data in CSV, Excel, or Google Sheets formats.

Functional Requirements
Supported File Formats:
CSV.
Excel (.xlsx).
Google Sheets.
Validation:
Ensure required headers exist (e.g., “Feature Request,” “Customer Type”).
Handle errors gracefully with clear messages (e.g., “Missing headers. Please include ‘Feature Request’”).
Data Preprocessing:
Normalize data (e.g., remove duplicates, fix casing).
Convert all file types into a common JSON format for backend storage.

UI Specifications
Drag-and-drop interface with fallback button to browse files.
Display validation feedback below the upload box:
Green: “Your file looks great!”
Red: “Headers are missing. Please check your file.”

Backend Integration
API Endpoint:
/upload-data
Methods:
POST: Upload and process files.
GET: Retrieve processed data.
File Parsing Logic:
CSV: Use Python’s pandas library.
Excel: Use openpyxl.
Google Sheets: Use the Google Sheets API for authentication and data import.

Data Format
Example Output After Preprocessing:
json
Copy code
[
  {
    "feature_request": "Add API integrations",
    "customer_type": "Enterprise",
    "priority": "High"
  },
  {
    "feature_request": "Improve UI responsiveness",
    "customer_type": "Small Business",
    "priority": "Medium"
  }
]



Development Notes
Ensure the file type is detected automatically.
Build error handling into the file parsing step (e.g., log errors and return friendly messages to the user).
For Google Sheets, include OAuth authentication to allow users to import files directly.

