Technical Stack Documentation
Guiding Principles
Simplicity:
Prioritize tools that are easy to implement and maintain.
Avoid unnecessary components like authentication at this stage.
Modularity:
Ensure components are independent, making it easy to add features later (e.g., user authentication or advanced analytics).
Compatibility with Cursor.ai:
Favor well-documented frameworks and libraries Cursor.ai can leverage effectively.

Overview of the Stack
Component
Technology
Reasoning
Frontend
React.js
Simple, modular, and widely supported.
Backend
Flask (Python)
Lightweight, integrates seamlessly with Python libraries.
Data Storage
PostgreSQL
Reliable relational database for storing structured data.
File Parsing
pandas (Python)
Industry-standard for handling CSV and Excel files.
NLP Engine
OpenAI API (GPT-4)
Prebuilt, powerful natural language processing engine.
Deployment
Render or AWS (Elastic Beanstalk)
Easy deployment with scalability options.
Google Sheets API
Google Sheets API
For handling Google Sheets uploads directly.


Frontend
Framework: React.js
Why React?
Modular structure makes it easy to develop and expand components like Wizard, File Upload, Table, and Ada.
Cursor.ai supports generating React components effectively.
Structure
Components:
Wizard: Multi-step form for collecting product context.
File Upload: Drag-and-drop upload box with validation.
Visualized Table: Interactive data table with sorting functionality.
Chatbot (Ada): Sidebar component for user interaction.
State Management
Use React Context API to manage state across components (e.g., sharing Wizard context with Ada and Table).
Styling
Simple CSS or TailwindCSS for lightweight and maintainable styling.

Backend
Framework: Flask (Python)
Why Flask?
Lightweight and easy to set up.
Integrates well with pandas for file parsing and OpenAI API for NLP tasks.
Cursor.ai can generate efficient Flask endpoints.
API Endpoints
/wizard-context
POST: Save Wizard input (e.g., product name, goals).
GET: Retrieve saved context.
/upload-data
POST: Process uploaded file (CSV, Excel, or Google Sheets).
GET: Retrieve preprocessed data for the table.
/query-ada
POST: Send user queries, Wizard context, and data to OpenAI API for insights.
/analyze-data
(Future) Perform clustering and trend analysis server-side.
Structure
Use Blueprints to organize the backend by feature (e.g., separate blueprints for Wizard, File Upload, and Ada).
Store shared utilities (e.g., data parsing, API integrations) in a common utils directory.

Data Storage
Database: PostgreSQL
Why PostgreSQL?
Handles structured data (e.g., Wizard inputs, preprocessed datasets) efficiently.
Scales well for future needs.
Schema
Wizard Context Table:
id: Unique identifier.
product_name: Text.
goals: Text.
personas: JSON.
Uploaded Data Table:
file_id: Unique identifier.
context_id: Foreign key linking to Wizard Context.
data: JSON (stores preprocessed data).

File Parsing
Library: pandas (Python)
Why pandas?
Mature, efficient library for handling CSV and Excel files.
Cursor.ai can generate reliable pandas-based scripts.
Workflow
Detect file type (CSV, Excel, or Sheets).
Parse and validate headers:
Required headers: "Feature Request," "Customer Type," "Priority."
Normalize data:
Remove duplicates.
Standardize text (e.g., lowercase, trim whitespace).
Convert to JSON for storage and use by other components (Ada, Table).
Google Sheets Integration
Use Google Sheets API to fetch data as a pandas DataFrame for consistency with other file types.

NLP Engine
Service: OpenAI API (GPT-4)
Why OpenAI?
Prebuilt and powerful NLP capabilities, eliminating the need to develop custom models.
Supports clustering, summarization, and conversational responses.
Integration
Input:
Wizard context.
Preprocessed data (JSON).
User query (e.g., “What are the top pain points?”).
Output:
Actionable insights (e.g., “30% of requests mention API integrations”).
Example Request
python
Copy code
import openai

response = openai.ChatCompletion.create(
    model="gpt-4",
    messages=[
        {"role": "system", "content": "You are Ada, an assistant helping PMs analyze feature requests."},
        {"role": "user", "content": "What are the top pain points in this data?"}
    ],
    temperature=0.7
)


Deployment
Platform: Render (Primary) or AWS Elastic Beanstalk (Alternative)
Why Render?
Simplified deployment process with built-in PostgreSQL support.
Automatically scales for increased traffic.
Setup
Frontend: Deploy React app as a static site.
Backend: Deploy Flask app as a Docker container.
Database: Use Render’s PostgreSQL add-on.

Modular Design Highlights
Frontend Modularity:
Each feature (Wizard, File Upload, Ada, Table) is implemented as a React component.
Components interact via Context API or REST APIs for loose coupling.
Backend Modularity:
Flask blueprints separate business logic by feature.
Shared utilities for file parsing and OpenAI API ensure reusable logic.
Data Handling:
Preprocess all data into JSON format, enabling seamless integration across frontend and backend.
API-Driven Architecture:
Every feature (Wizard, Ada, Table) communicates with the backend via REST APIs, ensuring scalability and flexibility.

Milestones
Week 1-2:
Set up Flask backend and PostgreSQL.
Build Wizard frontend and backend endpoints.
Week 3-4:
Implement File Upload with pandas for parsing CSV/Excel.
Integrate Google Sheets API.
Week 5-6:
Develop Ada’s chat functionality with OpenAI API.
Build the visualized table with sorting.
Week 7+:
Add advanced features (e.g., filters, dashboards).


